Throughout the first year of my college experience, lots of things went well, but unfortunately, lots of things fell, quite frankly, flat on their face. As a result of this, there are many things that I would do differently, so I'll name as many as I can. But before I jump into this proper review, I'd like to summarise how this year actually went. Overall, the whole class was tasked with 5 assignments (technically 6 since 4 was split in two) that each had their own technical theme and reasoning for said theme. Assignment 1 was only coding with a focus on RPG elements, for example, turn based combat. Assignment 2 was a 2D game with the same focus on RPG. And assignment 3 was a 3D game rounding out the RPG focus trilogy. Assignment 4 was split in two, with one project focusing on visual scripting but no requirements on it being 2D or 3D. And part two of the assignment was to create a VR game in 3D. And finally, the last assignment, the FMP, could be anything you wanted but only restricted to once selected theme. Anyway, now that the summary is out of the way, it is time to transition into what I would change in every project/overall.

I believe that the most prominent problem that I had this whole year was my complete abundance of lazy work. By this I mean that I had a frequent amount of unique chances to actually work on my games, or on my general slides, but I basically procrastinated the entire time. This was obviously a problem as I didn't work as much or as hard.

Not exactly the second thing I would change, but the second identifiable and possible change is spacing out my work correctly. Now what do I mean by this? I'll apply this to an example for easier understanding. By working on level design or separating the scripts (for example, player and enemy), I'm conveying a differentiation between the segments of the project. And signifying the segments beginning and end, ensures the tasks' absolute completion which emphasises my satisfaction plus completes all segments fairly, to the max, only to then improve the speed of workflow.

Another change, unspecified in order, is to copy less in the earlier projects. I can claim this as of current, as I obviously know more now than I do then, however, I can still complain about this since there was a lot of copying and pasting other people's work and scripts. This isn't necessarily bad since I did learn how to code slightly, but problematic as I hadn't changed the provided code and understood said code entirely.

The 4th change I could make is to follow a timetable for every project. Like stated in the previous paragraph, I can say this as back then I wasn't as advanced since I didn't even know how to plan a game's creation. I didn't understand what development areas were important for the game. By following a timetable, I don't mean to the tee, I can be lenient. Nevertheless, I did create a timetable for the FMP, but I didn't stick to it. Although, I definitely should've for the reason of separating segments to ensure proper creation and focus of said segments as stated in the second paragraph.

A change that isn't necessarily important, but still mandatory to declare as it does help the planning process of development is using the website trello. I won't explain exactly the function of the website, but I will say that it helps categorise the essential fragments of the project guaranteeing the separation and differentiation of these fragments meaning I can focus on one at a time.

One change that Tim (teacher) brought to light was to centre my beginning of the project around more of the modelling and level design side of things. This is because I always end each assignment by rushing these areas of the game. In my last project, I didn't even implement any modelling by either myself or anyone else. Maybe because of this reason but probably because I don't find it as fun as coding itself.

This paragraph is only referencing assignment 4. This is because this change/complaint is centred on working on two projects at the same time. Not only that, but one of them was a VR game which I had absolutely zero experience on. I think the reason why I would change this is pretty obvious, but to sum it up, the workload for the amount of time we had was completely unreasonable and problematic, and I cannot even believe how I was able to create a single ounce of these "games" and keep a cool head. What also didn't help was that the VR headsets weren't working, so there was no playtesting whatsoever, which is also pretty obviously problematic.

The final change I would like to make is kind of out of my hands. It's that the laptop I work on outside of college is utterly appalling and significantly slower than the college pc's. This means that my workflow is drastically slower whilst at home. I also don't even work on the laptop half the time because I know I'd only get frustrated due to the harsh delay during development.

Overall, I know that I can't change the past but I can affect the future. Even though I cannot stick to or enhance all these changes for future projects in the near future, I can still recognize the value of highlighting all of these substitutes and this task as a whole is rather eye opening for me. Additionally, I can still work on some, if not all of these in the distant future.
